---
title: "Quantum Chemistry Study on α- and β- Acrolein Radicals Associated with Molecular Oxygen"
collection: talks
type: "37th Regional Meeting on Kinetics and Dynamics"
permalink: /talks/2019-01-26-talk-1
venue: "Trinity College"
date: 2019-01-26
location: "Hartford, CT"
---
---

Acrolein, α, β-unsaturated (acrylic) aldehyde, is one of the simplest multifunctional molecules, containing both an alkene and an aldehyde group. Acrolein is an atmospheric pollutant formed from the photochemical oxidation of the anthropogenic VOC 1,3-butadiene, and from polymer degradation. It serves as a model compound for methacrolein (MACR) and methyl vinyl ketone (MVK), in modeling and understanding the oxidation products of the biogenic VOC isoprene. Acrolein is, furthermore, a product from biological and numerous combustion oxidation processes. A new lower energy conformer (electronic structure) of the secondary acrolein vinyl radial (CH2=C•-CHO) with a linear structure, compared to the common bent structure, has been identified by our calculations related to the thermochemistry of the α-acrolein vinyl radical. The association reaction of α-acrolein radical with molecular oxygen to form a peroxy radical, which further reacts via a number of low energy channels, including chain branching, to form an alkoxy radical plus atomic oxygen. Thermochemical and kinetic properties are studied at CBS-QB3 and CBS-APNO levels of computation chemistry. The well-depth is determined as 52 kcal/mol for α-acrolein radical association with 3O2 Chain branching of the R•+ O2 to RO• + O is an important reaction pathway in the α-acrolein radical oxidation.
